HARI SREENIVASAN: Good evening.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Judy Woodruff is away.
On tonight's "PBS NewsHour":
Gunmen in Egypt
attack a Christian group making
their way
to a monastery, killing at least
28 members
of the targeted religious
minority.
Also ahead this Friday, Judy
Woodruff sits
down for an exclusive interview
with American
Aya Hijazi and her husband,
charity workers
released from an Egyptian prison
after three
years.
AYA HIJAZI, Released Charity
Worker: It was
actually in the cage where the
judge acquitted
us all, and it was -- it was
unbelievable.
Like, we prayed for it so much,
but we thought
it's far-reaching.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And President
Trump meets
with world leaders in Sicily for
his first
G7 summit.
We wrap up the events of Trump's
first foreign
trip.
And it's Friday.
Mark Shields and David Brooks
give their take
on this week's news and the
president's first
tour abroad.
All that and more on tonight's
"PBS NewsHour."
(BREAK)
HARI SREENIVASAN: Once again
tonight, Coptic
Christians in Egypt are under
attack.
This time, gunmen blasted a bus
packed with
men, women and children.
Chief foreign affairs
correspondent Margaret
Warner has the story.
MARGARET WARNER: Hours after the
attack, the
bus sat on an unpaved desert
road.
Shattered windows and blood
stains bore witness
to the ferocious assault.
Survivors told of being
overtaken by eight
to 10 gunmen in SUVs.
QUESTION (on camera): How many
people were
on the bus?
WOMAN (through translator): We
were 40 people,
including children, in the bus.
QUESTION (through translator):
What did the
attackers look like?
WOMAN (through translator): They
were masked.
QUESTION (through translator):
What were they
wearing?
WOMAN (through translator): Like
military
uniforms.
MARGARET WARNER: It happened on
an isolated
road in Minya province, south of
Cairo.
The Coptic Christians were on
their way to
a monastery.
The Health Ministry says many of
the dead
and wounded were children.
This was the latest in a series
of attacks
on Egypt's embattled Christian
minority since
late last year.
Those claimed more than 75
lives.
And the Islamic State group
claimed responsibility
for those earlier incidents.
In December, the main Coptic
cathedral in
Cairo was bombed.
Then on Palm Sunday came twin
suicide attacks
on churches in Alexandria and
Tanta.
After that, Egyptian President
Abdel Fattah
El-Sisi declared a three-month
nationwide
state of emergency.
ABDEL FATTAH EL-SISI, Egyptian
President (through
translator): I won't say those
who fell are
Christian or Muslim.
I will say that they're
Egyptian.
MARGARET WARNER: The pope,
visiting Egypt
weeks later, condemned the
violence against
the Copts.
POPE FRANCIS, Leader of Catholic
Church (through
translator): God, the lover of
life, never
ceases to love man.
It is essential that we reject
any absolutizing
that would justify violence, for
violence
is the negation of every
authentic religious
expression.
MARGARET WARNER: Coptic
Christians make up
about 10 percent of Egypt's
population of
93 million people, and they have
long been
a target for Islamist radicals.
In 2013, they largely supported
then-General
El-Sisi when he ousted the
Muslim Brotherhood
from power.
In return, he pledged to protect
the Christian
minority.
Now Christians say El-Sisi has
failed to make
good on his promise, as his
government confronts
an Islamist insurgency.
NPR reporter Jane Arraf, in
Cairo, said Christians
don't complain about El-Sisi
publicly.
JANE ARRAF, NPR: They don't want
to criticize
him.
And we know that's the case
because, after
these attacks, in hospitals in
Minya, where
people gathered to gather their
dead and comfort
the wounded, there were
protests, but the
protests were against the attack
itself.
They weren't against the
government.
MARGARET WARNER: And on a
day-to-day basis,
Christians must be ever more
watchful and
circumspect about practicing
their religion,
fearing violence from terrorists
or their
own Muslim neighbors.
JANE ARRAF: In one place,
Christians were
attacked and their houses burned
after they
gathered to pray for victims of
a suicide
bombing on Palm Sunday.
And when I asked villagers there
what's the
problem you have with
Christians, they said,
we don't have a problem.
They just can't build churches.
So it's really very unsettled
for them in
places like that, and they're
not sure who
to turn to, to be perfectly
honest.
MARGARET WARNER: Today, as
family members
mourn the latest victims,
Egyptian jets struck
militant bases in Eastern Libya.
And El-Sisi appealed to
President Trump to
take the lead in fighting
terrorism.
For the "PBS NewsHour," I'm
Margaret Warner.
HARI SREENIVASAN: This evening
at the G7 summit
in Sicily, President Trump
condemned the attack
in Egypt.
He blamed what he called evil
organizations
of terror with a thuggish
ideology.
In the day's other news: An
activist group
reports U.S. coalition
airstrikes in Eastern
Syria killed more than 100
people overnight.
That word comes from the Syrian
Observatory
for Human Rights, based in
Britain.
It says the strikes hit a town
held by Islamic
State fighters.
Children and other relatives of
the militants
were among the victims.
Police in Manchester, England,
have made two
more arrests in the concert
bombing that killed
22 people.
They say they now have nine
people in custody,
including several they call key
players.
Investigators also raided new
locations today,
and the police chief said that's
likely to
continue through the weekend.
IAN HOPKINS, Greater Manchester
Chief Constable:
We have hundreds of officers
that are working
on this investigation from
across the national
counterterrorism policing
network.
And we have seized thousands of
exhibits that
are now being assessed.
I think it's fair to say that
there's been
enormous progress with the
investigation.
There's still an awful lot of
work to do.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Also today,
Secretary of
State Rex Tillerson said the
U.S. government
takes full responsibility for
information
in the case that leaked to news
organizations.
In Sri Lanka, monsoon rains
triggered floods
and mudslides today, killing 91
people.
At least 110 others are missing.
Swollen rivers washed over roads
and houses,
and 2,000 people were forced to
evacuate.
More than 60,000 have been
affected by the
rain.
Back in this country, Hillary
Clinton delivered
a searing critique of President
Trump's policies
in a commencement address.
She spoke at her alma mater,
Wellesley College
in Massachusetts.
Without naming the president
directly, she
branded his budget an attack of
unimaginable
cruelty against the most
vulnerable.
She also charged there's a
full-fledged assault
on truth and reason.
HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON, Former
U.S. Secretary
of State: When people in power
invent their
own facts and attack those who
question them,
it can mark the beginning of the
end of a
free society.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Vice President
Pence also
addressed a graduation ceremony
at the Naval
Academy in Annapolis, Maryland.
He told the 1,000 graduates the
era of budget
cuts of the armed forces is
over.
MIKE PENCE, Vice President of
the United States:
We will not relent until we
rebuild our military,
restore the arsenal of
democracy, and ensure
that our soldiers, sailors,
airmen, Marines,
and Coast Guard have all the
resources that
you need to accomplish your
mission and come
home safe.
HARI SREENIVASAN: The president
already signed
into law a large increase in
defense spending,
and he's calling for major new
outlays in
his budget.
The president's son-in-law,
Jared Kushner,
says he will cooperate with an
FBI investigation
into ties between campaign aides
and Russia.
That's according to a statement
from his lawyer.
News accounts say the focus is
on Kushner's
meetings with Russian officials
in December.
They say it doesn't mean he is
suspected of
a crime.
Republican Greg Gianforte is
headed to Congress
from Montana, despite being
charged with assault.
He beat Democrat Rob Quist by
six points in
yesterday's special election for
the state's
only U.S. House seat.
In his victory speech, Gianforte
apologized
for his altercation with a
reporter the night
before.
GREG GIANFORTE (R), Montana
Congressman-Elect:
I made a mistake.
And I took an action that I
can't take back.
And I'm not proud of what
happened.
I shouldn't have responded in
the way that
I did, and, for that, I'm sorry.
That's not the person that I am,
and it's
not the way I will lead in this
state.
HARI SREENIVASAN: President
Trump cheered
the election result today,
telling reporters
-- quote -- "Great win in
Montana."
And Wall Street went quietly
into the Memorial
Day weekend.
The Dow Jones industrial average
lost two
points to close at 21080 today.
The Nasdaq rose about five
points, and the
S&P 500 edged up a fraction.
For the week, the Dow and the
S&P gained more
than 1 percent.
The Nasdaq rose 2 percent.
Still to come on the "NewsHour":
an exclusive
interview with Aya Hijazi, freed
after spending
three years in an Egyptian
prison; what President
Trump accomplished on his first
trip abroad;
Mark Shields and David Brooks
analyze a full
week of news; and much more.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now to Judy's
exclusive
interview with Aya Hijazi, the
Egyptian-American
aid worker released last month
from prison
in Egypt, along with her
husband, Mohamed
Hassanein.
The 30-year-old Hijazi grew up
in the Washington
area and in Egypt.
In 2013, she and Mohamed founded
the Belady
Foundation, the goal, to help
impoverished
street children in Cairo.
But they soon found themselves
in prison,
falsely accused of horrendous
crimes and the
subjects of international
efforts, including
by Presidents Trump and Obama,
to gain their
release.
Judy spoke with Aya and Mohamed
earlier this
week.
JUDY WOODRUFF: The calm, mundane
routine of
daily life is something new and
special again
for Aya Hijazi and her husband,
Mohamed Hassanein.
The apartment they just moved
into outside
Washington is still sparsely
furnished, but
it's a place to call their own,
and it's a
world away from the Egyptian
jail cells and
crowded courtroom cages they
were kept in
for three years.
They had met in Tahrir Square in
the heady
days after Egypt's 2011
revolution.
AYA HIJAZI, Released Charity
Worker: Initially,
it seemed like the political
climate to allow
for political change.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But by 2013,
after the military
deposed the Muslim Brotherhood
government,
the picture darkened.
They looked to build a little
light.
AYA HIJAZI: And so it seemed
like the only
venue to actually do change and
give hope
and not be -- not vilify or be
vilified is
to work on humanitarian causes
that no other
two people could differ on,
like, say, children.
Who would want a child to sleep
in the streets?
JUDY WOODRUFF: In an Orwellian
twist, the
organization they founded to
help those children
would lead to heinous unfounded
charges of
child abuse and human
trafficking.
AYA HIJAZI: We still don't
really know what
happened.
Like, we know the picture, but
we don't not
why or how.
The kids started to love us and
really tell
each other about our
organization.
And everything was going on
smoothly, until
one day supposedly a father came
looking for
his son, whom we have never seen
and the children
have never seen, and we went
with him to file
a police report, because he was
quite abusive
with us and the NGO and the
children.
And instead of us filing a
report, we found
that we are charged with human
trafficking.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, there had
been no indication
before that of a problem?
AYA HIJAZI: No.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And were you
immediately taken
into custody?
AYA HIJAZI: Yes, from that day
on.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How did you deal
with it?
You were separated pretty
immediately, is
that right?
AYA HIJAZI: Yes.
Yes.
And we couldn't contact anyone,
but the word
got through very, very quickly.
And so lawyers came, but they
weren't ours.
They were just volunteers.
And so I just thought that,
immediately, when
I talk to a prosecutor or a
judge, we will
be released within a day or a
few days.
And it went on for three years.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Three years
shuttled from different
prisons to court appearances,
the newly married
couple seeing each other only
fleetingly.
How much were you able to be in
contact with
each other during the time you
were held?
AYA HIJAZI: It was very hard to
get letters
across, through our families.
Our families would visit us,
exchange letters.
Other than that, we would wait
for court sessions
to meet.
So, it's like, a total of 18
months, we saw
each other only three times and
maybe only
for a minute, or less even.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Tell me about
your experience.
AYA HIJAZI: I wasn't tortured in
prison or
beaten or even -- I didn't
receive abusive
words.
It was very hard for me that I
was placed
with regular crimes.
Like, I wasn't even classified
inside the
prison as political prisoners.
And I was like the charges were
very heinous,
like raping children.
And so it was very hard just
coping with that.
MOHAMED HASSANEIN, Released
Charity Worker
(through translator): Prison
itself is against
human nature.
The idea of prison is that it
takes away from
the person's humanity and the
person's ideas.
But if the person was able to
keep his or
her core ideas and humanity,
then the person
has won.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Aya taught
herself French and
Spanish while in prison and she
learned to
draw.
She showed me one pencil sketch
that reflected
what she said was her own
experience.
Where are you in this drawing?
AYA HIJAZI: I find myself in a
lot of those.
Like, I find myself here, like,
all right,
come, I'm ready to go to prison
just to prove
my point.
I find myself here looking at
the window,
seeing the streets and wishing
that I could
be part of it one day again.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is it true that
most of the
people in Egypt don't know
what's going on
inside prison?
AYA HIJAZI: Yes, prisons are
largely a closed
place, and we suffered that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: While they
endured, unbeknownst
to them, Aya and Mohamed had
many advocates
on the outside, and many in high
places.
SEN.
MARCO RUBIO (R), Florida: I
would like to
raise the case of
Egyptian-American citizen
Aya Hijazi.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Were you aware
that President
Obama was trying to get you out
of prison?
AYA HIJAZI: I know that the
administration
towards the end was involved and
did a lot.
It was towards the end of our
imprisonment
and towards the end of their
administration
that they have -- and I have to
give credit
where credit is due, so I am
thankful to them.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, that
happened.
And then a new president comes
into office.
And how did you hear that he was
working on
this?
And what we saw was, he said
something to
President El-Sisi.
So, how did you hear about all
this?
AYA HIJAZI: So, in Egypt, we --
in the prison,
we got to see some newspapers.
And so Trump was saying that
they shouldn't
be discussing human rights
issues publicly.
It seemed like it's being
discussed, but behind
closed doors.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And then how did
you learn
that something might happen,
that you might
be freed?
AYA HIJAZI: So, we knew that
there was American
interest, but up until the last
day, we had
no idea how it will go, until
the day of the
acquittal.
It was a surprise.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Until the final
day?
AYA HIJAZI: Yes.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, how did you
learn?
What -- how did you learn?
AYA HIJAZI: It was actually in
the cage where
the judge acquitted us all, and
it was -- it
was unbelievable.
Like, we prayed for it so much,
but we thought
it's far-reaching, like the best
that could
be done is a pardon.
And we were really hoping we
wouldn't reach
that.
And it was a surprise.
JUDY WOODRUFF: You literally had
no preparation
for when you were -- the judge
told you, OK,
you are acquitted.
AYA HIJAZI: Yes.
We didn't know that he would say
acquitted,
in a sense.
It was like the best moment of
our lives,
all of us.
JUDY WOODRUFF: That moment just
six weeks
ago came after President Trump's
meeting in
Washington with Egypt's
President Abdel Fattah
El-Sisi.
Mr. Trump has made a point of
befriending
Sisi and has been highly
complimentary of
him, following years of strained
relations
with the Obama administration.
DONALD TRUMP, President of the
United States:
And I just want to say to you,
Mr. President,
that you have a great friend and
ally in the
United States and in me.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Aya's view of Mr.
Trump's praise
of the Egyptian leader are
complicated.
AYA HIJAZI: This is difficult
for me, because
I don't share his view on Mr.
Sisi.
I could differ with Mr. Trump.
And I would like to actually
direct this to
Mr. Sisi, if he listens.
It wasn't just us who were
imprisoned, unjustly
imprisoned.
And if Mr. Sisi had a role, or
if -- I would
tell you, Mr. Sisi, if you had a
role then,
then that's good, but there are
thousands
and thousands of wrongly
imprisoned people.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Almost
immediately upon her
release, a U.S. government plane
whisked Aya
and Mohamed to the United
States, where Aya
soon sat with the president in
the Oval Office,
the same chair in which
President Sisi had
sat a few weeks earlier.
DONALD TRUMP: We are happy to
have Aya back
home, and it's a great honor to
have her in
the Oval Office.
JUDY WOODRUFF: How was your
meeting with President
Trump?
AYA HIJAZI: He was very
hospitable.
He made us feel very welcome,
and he admired
our strength.
And I work for the children.
So, I was glad.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What did he ask
you?
AYA HIJAZI: Oh, one of the
questions he asked
was about the time of my arrest.
And he like -- I'm not sure, but
it seemed
like he had this idea that -- or
a conviction
that it was at the time of the
Muslim Brotherhood.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Which was before
President
El-Sisi.
AYA HIJAZI: Which was before
Sisi.
So, he was like, "So was your
arrest -- be
at the time of the Brotherhood?"
And I said, no.
And then he said, "Oh, it was at
the time
of Sisi."
And he was taken aback.
It seemed, like, different to
what he had
in mind.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Is there a
contradiction between
President Trump working to get
you released
and, on the other hand, praising
the government
of Egypt which was holding you
in prison?
AYA HIJAZI: I think he's trying
to be effective,
because he even said it to me
while we met,
that, well, that he was
effective, wasn't
he?
And I don't know how to say no.
So there is the traditional way
of just, like,
mere criticism, very sharp
criticism, and
there is the more diplomatic
way, perhaps.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Do you think that
maybe, in
your conversation with him and
in his learning
about your experience, that
maybe he's -- you
have adjusted his thinking about
human rights?
Or what do you think about that?
AYA HIJAZI: I hope he gets to
know that the
human rights situation is really
horrible
at that time, and people are not
just -- it's
not just for fighting terrorism,
because people
are unjustly held, and there are
so many fabricated
cases.
They are illegitimately held.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Are both of you
optimistic
that things are going to get
better in Egypt?
MOHAMED HASSANEIN (through
translator): Worry
and optimism are different
things.
It's very normal to be worried,
but it's not
normal to live out hope.
And we're also hopeful.
And I'm worried.
JUDY WOODRUFF: What do you want
for Egypt,
for the people of Egypt?
What do you want for them?
AYA HIJAZI: We want what we call
-- some may
call American values.
I would like to think of them as
universal
values, humanity, number one, a
good governed
state where people can express
themselves,
where they can freely assemble,
where they
can live in harmony and peace.
Democracy is not a bad word to
describe that.
JUDY WOODRUFF: And you believe
that time is
coming?
AYA HIJAZI: We have to believe
until the very
last day we die.
I mean, if we want to be parents
-- we're
not parents yet -- and we want
to see something
good for future generations.
So either we say we have given
you a better
world, or we die trying.
HARI SREENIVASAN: President
Trump spent the
last full day of his first and
lengthy overseas
trip in Sicily today at a
meeting of the so-called
G7 countries.
It ended a week that took him
from Saudi Arabia,
to Israel and the West Bank, to
the Vatican,
and yesterday to the Brussels
headquarters
of the European Union and NATO.
I spoke a short time ago with
Bloomberg News
White House correspondent
Margaret Talev in
Taormina, Sicily, and asked her
if President
Trump tried to convey central
messages to
world leaders.
MARGARET TALEV, Bloomberg News:
There sure
were.
I would say, in the Middle East,
it was the
idea that President Trump is
uniquely qualified
to restart the Mideast peace
process by kind
of shifting the focus a little
bit away from
that traditional
Israeli-Palestinian dynamic
to this broader idea of Israelis
and Muslim
and Arab nations having a lot in
common in
a desire to fight terrorism.
That's one big message.
In Europe, the message really
was different.
And it was sort of bringing
President Trump's
campaign promises about kind of
resetting
expectations for NATO countries,
paying what
he would call their fair share,
rebalancing
trade and how Europe and the
United States
think about trade with one
another, the idea
of reciprocal trade agreements,
if you make
this tough for me, I will make
this tough
for you.
Those were a lot of those
messages in Western
Europe.
And, so, I think what you saw
pretty much
follows.
It was a very warm welcome in
the Middle East,
and a much sort of more
skeptical, sometimes
critical reception in at NATO
and the G7.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tell us about
a little bit
about those reactions from world
leaders,
at least on the European side.
MARGARET TALEV: Yes, I mean, the
visit with
the pope, of course, it was sort
of how President
Trump kicked off his arrival in
Europe.
And we know, from the last
year's campaign,
how many differences of opinion
the two men
have.
And so both of their teams sort
of made clear
from the outset that this was an
attempt for
each to preserve a channel to
talk with one
another, but that they weren't
going to be
necessarily on the same page
about everything.
President Trump's reaction,
ebullient, joyous,
great honor, love it, grinning
ear to ear.
Pope Francis' demeanor, much
more reserved,
and a lot of sort of reading on
the tea leaves
and the body language on that
front.
We will see where that
relationship goes.
But, from there, the move over
to NATO, the
Western allies in NATO had sort
of boxed him
in to try to force his
commitment, for him
to restate a commitment to NATO
by having
him attend this unveiling of an
Article 5
memorial.
And President Trump was willing
to be led
to the water to a point, but to
choose his
wording carefully in terms of
reaffirming
his commitment to Article 5
without saying,
and I'm in it forever no matter
what, you
know, whatever you need.
That wasn't the message.
The message was very much,
Article 5, we appreciate
that it was invoked for the U.S.
after 9/11,
but for NATO to work long-term,
there needs
to be a stepping up of financial
contributions.
That was -- the NATO leaders
have already
agreed to that.
There have been plans made three
years ago.
This was always on track to be
stepped up.
A lot of those leaders really
bristled at
the idea that President Trump
was trying to
say this was all because of him
and some bad
feelings there.
And then, as you moved over to
the G7, two
big issues rolling into the
final day of the
summit that have emerged as
fairly predictable
stumbling blocks again are
climate change
and trade.
Angela Merkel, the German
leader, telling
folks after day one's session
that all of
the other leaders of the G7 were
unanimous
in pressing the president of the
United States
to stay with Paris and to get
sort of with
their program.
Gary Cohn, the president's
economic adviser,
preserving the space for
President Trump perhaps
to stay in the Paris talks, to
show that he's
listening to European leaders,
but leaving
a little bit of room to do that
at his own
pace and under his own terms,
and saying,
look, I want to get this right.
I'm going to take my time,
meaning not necessarily
here.
And then on trade, again, we're
expecting
months, if not longer, of kind
of a shift
in discussions about what the
future of U.S.
and European trade relations are
going to
look like.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And we also
saw a very short
communique out of the G7,
usually a sign that
there was very little that they
all agreed
on to put on paper.
MARGARET TALEV: Yes, that's
right.
I mean, you can say that that's
a good thing.
You can say that it's a bad
thing.
You're not going to agree to
more than you
agree on.
And this does, again, preserve
some diplomatic
space for moving closer together
in the future,
but it also reflects what sort
of visit this
was.
It was calibrated by the White
House to show
that, to a domestic audience, as
well as to
Europe, that President Trump is
not going
to abandon every position that
he held from
the campaign just because he is
here in these
meetings, but, at the same time,
a recognition
from his aides that the more he
engages with
key allies all over the world,
the more nuance
is brought to the table in terms
of him understanding
the leadership role that the
U.S. is expected
to fulfill and the complexities
of those obligations.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
Margaret Talev
of Bloomberg joining us tonight
from Italy,
thanks so much.
MARGARET TALEV: Thanks, Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Stay with us.
Coming up on the "NewsHour":
from the "NewsHour"
Bookshelf, a humorous take on
getting out
of your bubble; a soldier's
perspective on
being a veteran of a war that
never ends;
and what happened when one of
Mr. Roger's
neighbors met the TV icon during
a difficult
season of life?
But first to the analysis of
Shields and Brooks.
That's syndicated columnist Mark
Shields and
New York Times columnist David
Brooks.
All right, let's start this week
on the foreign
front.
The president met potentates,
presidents,
prime ministers and a pope.
There were magical orbs.
(LAUGHTER)
HARI SREENIVASAN: There were
tweet-sized messages
stuck into a Wailing Wall.
How did he do?
MARK SHIELDS: B-plus.
No.
(LAUGHTER)
MARK SHIELDS: Well, I'm not
going to grade
him.
I grade him on the curve.
I would say the visual highlight
was with
the pope when he said, you know,
the pope
is a very humble man, much like
me, which
he had tweeted earlier, and
that's why I like
him so much.
But just sort of they're polar
opposites,
of the two, one a champion of
immigrants and
refugees and almost disdainful
of opulence
and excessive wealth, and the
other sort of
the embodiment of it.
But I thought, quite frankly,
the first part
of the trip, he laid down the
policy, and
the policy is that we will stand
on the side
of Sunni autocrats against
terrorism, and
no questions asked.
And here, in addition, is a
major weapons,
a huge weapons sale that -- and
we're not
going to ask how you use it or
where you use
it, and if people are killed in
Yemen, and
they're -- made in the USA is on
the weapon
that kills them, and it's done
indiscriminately,
that's their business and not
ours, because
the operating and organizing
principle of
foreign policy is opposition to
terrorism
under Donald Trump.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, I thought
Melania had a
very good week.
I thought a lot of good moments
for her.
There was a lot of good
judgments, actually.
He, by the standards of some of
the competence
of the previous week, I would
say you would
have to say the trip was, by
competence standards,
a success.
He did what he wanted to do in
Saudi Arabia,
at NATO, at various other
places.
I do think, as Mark suggested,
the chief oddity
of the entire trip is that we
seem to be mean
to our friends and kind to our
foes.
And so, Saudi Arabia -- Fareed
Zakaria had
a very good column on this --
we're supposed
to be against terrorism, and
Trump loves to
talk about Iranians -- Iran's
influence on
terrorism, but the main source
of terror funding
for both the ideas and sometimes
the organizations
is Saudi Arabia.
It's not Iran.
And so -- but, somehow, we're
super nice to
Saudi Arabia.
Meanwhile, we're super mean to
Germany and
France and some of our NATO
allies.
And so there's just been a
perversion of American
foreign policy, which is sort of
based on
the idea that character doesn't
matter, and
you can -- whether the leaders
from Russia
or the Philippines or Saudi
Arabia, that people
of bad character are people we
can ally with.
And, somehow, I think there is a
consistency
between the government here and
some of the
governments the Trump
administration likes
around the world.
HARI SREENIVASAN: There was a
bit of that
we just saw...
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
I'm sorry?
HARI SREENIVASAN: There was a
bit of that
we just saw in the conversation
that Judy
had.
MARK SHIELDS: That's exactly
right.
I would just say that the NATO
part of the
visit, I found particularly
disturbing, because
there was nothing about the
principles and
values.
There was nothing about values
and what we
share and what animates us and
what we respect
and revere, whether it's
individual rights
or democracy.
That just seemed to be
unimportant.
And all the criticism that the
president had
was stored up, as David pointed
out, for these
folks for somehow being welfare
cheats or
something.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
And that's pure demagoguery.
He spoke as if we -- they owe us
money because
they haven't been paying their
dues, which
is not true.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: That's not the way
that the
-- the problem is that they sort
of pledged
to gradually get to 2 percent of
GDP in defense
spending.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
DAVID BROOKS: And some of the
countries have,
and a lot of the countries have
not.
And that's a legitimate issue.
But he portrayed it as if we're
bailing them
out, and they owe us money, and
they haven't
paid their bills, which is just
actually untrue.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
let's shift gears
to the budget.
What do you make of the
priorities that were
set forth in this?
It's a political document, but
it kind of
lets you know what you think is
important.
MARK SHIELDS: That's right.
We don't pass a budget, but I
think it's fair
to say it was mean---spirited
and dishonest
were the two words that come
quickest to mind,
again, coming back to the visit
with the pope,
who has sort of made himself the
pope of the
poor, unlike a number of his
predecessors,
who seemed to enjoy the opulence
of Vatican
City.
And Donald Trump, at that very
meeting, his
budget, which he is distanced
from, he's not
even in town as it's released,
is, I think
fair to say, an orthodox
Republican document
in the worst sense, in that it
is tax cuts
for the most advantaged among
us, and saving
the character of those Americans
who are struggling,
who depend upon school lunches,
who depend
upon supplemental food, who
depend upon Medicaid
-- there are more people in the
United States
on Medicaid than there are on
Medicare.
And half of the people on
Medicaid get -- work
every day.
And we're talking about elderly
poor.
And, I mean, all of this is
being cut, for
what purpose?
To provide an enormous tax cut
for those who
are best-off.
HARI SREENIVASAN: David, doesn't
some of this
go right at the base of
supporters that Donald
Trump have, the poor working
class that came
to him?
And it seems, as Mark is
pointing out, that
some of the programs that are
being cut are
going to affect them first.
DAVID BROOKS: Well, you look at
the food stamps
program, and that has radically
expanded over
the last 10 years.
And so the question is, has it
expanded maybe
for some of the reasons Social
Security disability
expanded, just because it's
become sort of
welfare through the backdoor?
Is it illegitimate?
Well, if you look into the food
stamp program,
the reason it's expanded is
because a lot
of people are now near poor and
because of
economic changes.
It's not because of some
illegitimate explosion
of the welfare state.
It's because of the underlying
structure of
society has disadvantaged a lot
of people,
and they need some help.
And so it's -- as Donald Trump's
own secretary
of agriculture said, it's a
successful program,
and yet it's getting savagely
cut.
And I think that's -- and that,
as you say,
goes right at the Trump voters,
because the
lower-middle-class voters in
rural areas are
getting a lot of those benefits.
To me, the most egregious, two
egregious things
about the budget is, as Mark
said, it hurts
the poor and helps the rich, but
it also hurts
the young and helps the old, and
that whether
it's food stamps or a lot the
other programs,
if you believe in human capital,
that we're
investing in the future with a
lot these programs,
then that's the good kind of
spending, even
if you're kind of conservative.
And, to me, we should cut some
of the money
that goes to affluent elderly
people and give
more money to young, struggling
people.
But Donald Trump does the
reverse.
And the second thing is just the
almost in-your-face
dishonesty of it.
Some of it is -- just it's
assuming there
will be 3 percent growth, which
is not going
to happen, given our
demographics.
But Larry Summers pointed out
that this made
the most elementary budget
calculating error
of any administration in 40
years.
They took the same revenue
source, and they
counted it twice, in order to
cover.
And that's just -- everybody had
the to catch
that error, but they were just
going to do
it anyway, and they didn't care
what anybody
said.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Larry Summers,
the former
treasury secretary.
I mean, what about the president
coming back
and saying, hey, you know what,
I made these
promises, I said I wasn't going
to touch aid
to the elderly?
MARK SHIELDS: Well, he said he
wouldn't cut
Social Security, Medicare or
Medicaid.
That was the promise he made in
one of his
campaign tweets, that I'm the
only candidate.
He made that point.
And he has not.
He has not touched Social
Security.
He's cutting SSI, Social
Security -- the Supplemental
Social Security, for people who
are disabled
and elderly, but he's not
cutting Social Security
payments to the elderly.
He's not means-testing it in any
way, and
nor is he touching Medicare.
But Medicaid, having promised
not to, he is.
He is, in fact.
It's almost -- cutting Medicaid,
proposed
to cut it in half, the spending.
Federal spending would be cut in
half.
And the food stamps will be cut
by one-quarter.
And I don't know how you justify
this when,
in the same week, Hari, the
Congressional
Budget Office, the Republican
selected chief
economist, but very respected
nonpartisan,
says 23 million people are going
to lose the
health coverage insurance that
they already
have under the Republican-passed
plan.
I will say this unequivocally.
Tonight, three weeks after the
House passed
that health care bill, there is
not a single
member of the House who regrets
having voted
against it.
HARI SREENIVASAN: What about
members of the
Senate?
What do they do going forward?
DAVID BROOKS: Yes, well, they're
going to
have trouble.
First, it was kind of surprising
they went
through all the change of
rewriting the thing,
and they basically got the same
CBO number
as they got last time.
And I can't believe -- I
couldn't believe
they got so many House people to
vote for
this thing, because it's going
to be a killer
issue for a lot of people.
In the Senate, they're doing
everything in
secret right now.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
DAVID BROOKS: And so we don't
exactly know
what's happening.
They're talking with each other.
But we do know they're divided
almost down
the middle on some of the
Medicaid cuts, on
some oft other issues, on some
of the preexisting
conditions.
And passage in the Senate, you
wouldn't want
to bet on that, not by a long
shot.
HARI SREENIVASAN: And whatever
gets through
the Senate, there's a good
chance it wouldn't
get passed in the House.
DAVID BROOKS: Right.
It wouldn't get passed.
MARK SHIELDS: Yes.
I think that, in order to make
it acceptable
-- the pledge to repeal
Obamacare was great
as a political rallying cry.
It's terrible policy.
And it's not -- it won't pass.
DAVID BROOKS: But they could --
if they could
get -- they could have another
way to give
people health insurance through
health savings
accounts and tax credits and
things like that,
if they guaranteed the same
level of coverage
that Obama is doing.
And I think that would be a
completely legitimate
approach.
Maybe introduce some more
competition into
the system.
That is not what they're doing.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right,
lastly, in the
last two minutes we have here, a
new member
of the House of -- Republicans
-- during a
special election in Montana,
Greg Gianforte
beats his opponents, but
body-slams a reporter
on the way to getting there.
What does this say about -- you
know, and
the thing that I heard this
morning on NPR
is, one of the reporters was
talking to some
of his supporters, saying, you
know what,
that guy had it coming.
I mean, the extent of hostility
toward the
press and how it's manifesting
itself in different
ways in the past couple of
months.
MARK SHIELDS: I don't think
there is any question.
I think it was legitimized in
part by President
Trump's campaign, which included
this and
sort of rhetorical excesses and
singling out
members of the press.
But Frank Luntz, the Republican
pollster,
who was the pollster for the
Contract With
America, Newt Gingrich, said, if
you check
the party affiliation of someone
who commits
assault before deciding how you
feel about
it, you're what's wrong with
America.
And that's really what it's
become.
I think the seminal moment in
contemporary
American politics was when
President Obama
was addressing the joint session
of Congress
on health care, and Joe Wilson
of South Carolina
stood up and said, "You lie,"
unprecedented
in its rudeness and boorishness,
and he raised
a million dollars in the next
week in funds.
And I think that polarization
was rewarded.
DAVID BROOKS: Yes.
I would say two things are true.
The climate of ugliness is no
doubt ratcheting
up and giving some permission to
this.
In this case, I'm willing to
give the guy
a break.
He did apologize.
And he could have just lost his
temper.
We will see what his career is
like.
But I'm willing to -- if a
leader is at least
willing to apologize, that's
frankly a step
up from what we have seen on the
presidential
level.
HARI SREENIVASAN: All right, New
York Times
columnist David Brooks,
syndicated columnist
Mark Shields, thank you both.
MARK SHIELDS: Thank you, Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now a comic
with a sharp
edge and an astute take on
modern life and
politics.
Jeffrey Brown has this latest
addition to
the "NewsHour" Bookshelf.
W. KAMAU BELL, Author, "The
Awkward Thoughts
of W. Kamau Bell": Have you
heard of the phrase
Black Lives Matter.
MAN: Yes.
W. KAMAU BELL: And what do you
think about
that?
JEFFREY BROWN: Sociopolitical
comedy, it's
a way of describing the work of
W. Kamau Bell,
host of CNN's "United Shades of
America,"
in which he does something
rather unusual
these days, seeking out the
America and Americans
we don't know or regularly
interact with.
W. KAMAU BELL: Come here.
Come here.
WOMAN: Can you say it, because
-- can you
tell me a little bit?
W. KAMAU BELL: No, what you said
is true.
All lives should matter.
WOMAN: I know that.
(CROSSTALK)
W. KAMAU BELL: But right now,
but not -- right
now, lives...
WOMAN: ... offensive.
Right?
It does.
(CROSSTALK)
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes.
No.
Well, to many people it does,
because all
lives don't really matter in the
same way,
and then all lives matter is
like an aspirational
goal.
White people, learn from her.
JEFFREY BROWN: Now Bell expands
on his own
view of the world in a new book,
"The Awkward
Thoughts of W. Kamau Bell," with
the subtitle
"Tales of a 6' 4", African
American, Heterosexual,
Cisgender, Left-Leaning,
Asthmatic, Black
and Proud Blerd, Mama's Boy,
Dad, and Stand-Up
Comedian."
So, welcome.
That says it all pretty much
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes.
That's the whole book.
JEFFREY BROWN: That's the book.
W. KAMAU BELL: That's the book.
JEFFREY BROWN: We don't have to
read the book
anymore.
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes.
(LAUGHTER)
JEFFREY BROWN: "Awkward
Thoughts," though,
the title, what does that mean
exactly?
W. KAMAU BELL: It comes from the
fact that
I realize that the best things
that have happened
to me in life have been friends
of mine sitting
me down and having awkward talks
with me,
family members, or reading
things that challenge
me, that that's when I feel
really like I'm
growing as a person, when I'm in
an awkward
situation.
And a lot of times, in society,
we're trained
to run from awkward situations.
If things get awkward, you
either run from
them or yell over them to try to
control them.
But, for me, when things get
awkward, I get
quieter and start to listen
more.
JEFFREY BROWN: I used that
sociopolitical
comedy, which I took from the
jacket cover
of the book, so I assume you
approve of that.
W. KAMAU BELL: Oh, yes.
No, I'm the one who started
describing myself
as that.
JEFFREY BROWN: You started that,
but what
does that mean?
W. KAMAU BELL: I think I found
it somewhere,
this idea of sociopolitical.
A lot of times, a comedian like
me is a called
a political comedian.
But I think political comedy in
America conjures
up a pretty specific image.
And I love political comedians,
but I think
there is a pretty big difference
between what
I'm doing and what you would
think a stand-up
political comedian is doing.
I'm talking about -- I'm not
talking much
about politicians.
I'm talking about social
movements or people
who are struggling or oppressed
people.
It's not so much about what's
going on in
D.C.
JEFFREY BROWN: In the television
show and
to some extent certainly in the
book, this
search for the other, right?
W. KAMAU BELL: Mm-hmm.
JEFFREY BROWN: One of the
premises clearly
is we're all in our own boxes,
and we need
to get out of them.
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes.
The first part, when I was a
kid, I just moved
around a lot because my mom
moved around a
lot.
So, I think I sort of was
already being -- I
was always being broken out of
boxes.
My dad lives in Alabama.
So we would be somewhere and go
to Alabama.
And if you're in the north or in
the west
and you go to Alabama, that's a
different
box.
So, for me, the whole thing has
been about
like searching for where I
belong.
And then, as an adult, as a
stand-up comedian,
you travel around the country
doing stand-up
shows.
And you go anywhere where they
will hire you,
so you're in different places
you never would
think to go, like Garden City,
Kansas, or
Appalachian State University.
So, for me, it's just been a
natural thing.
And then the TV show sort of
takes all that
experience and really pushes it
forward another
step.
JEFFREY BROWN: Well, it does.
Everything you just said is sort
of your personal
experience of why you get out of
boxes.
But then you are extrapolating,
I think, to
a larger -- like, this is what
we all need.
This is what America needs.
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes?
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes, because I
travel around,
and I talk to people.
And everybody sort of loves
their part of
America, which is great, but
then a lot of
times, we think, this is the
most America
part of America, the part I live
in.
Like, the people in New York
think, this is
the most America.
People in Alabama think...
JEFFREY BROWN: To the detriment,
though, of
the culture?
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes, because then
you watch
the news, and if you're in New
York and they
say -- they talk about Alabama,
you think,
ah, that's not my country,
that's not my people.
And so somehow you condescend to
what their
experience is, or you think you
can actually
judge their experience, even
though you have
never been there.
So, you think those people want
-- like, you
look at people in coal country,
people who
don't live in coal country go,
why do they
want to destroy the environment
with coal?
But if you go talk to people in
coal country,
it's about jobs.
We sort of demonize them because
we think
they love destroying the
environment.
JEFFREY BROWN: You talked to the
alt-right
leader, right, Richard Spencer.
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: But you do it in
a gentle,
sort of humorous way.
It's not like you're...
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes, I do it the
same way I'm
talking to you, yes.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
Yes.
But to what end?
You're not trying to convince
them -- and
you have -- and you're clear
about your own
left-leaning, where you're
coming from.
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes.
It's not -- I'm not pulling a
trick on anybody.
I sit down as the person I am.
I'm very Googleable, so people
can find out
everything about me.
JEFFREY BROWN: Yes.
W. KAMAU BELL: And they're not
going to be
tricked about me.
JEFFREY BROWN: Not only are you
Googleable.
You say it all right on the
cover of the book.
W. KAMAU BELL: Yes.
I have written it down on paper.
It's forever.
But the idea is like, can we
have a conversation?
Can we actually get to a
different place?
And the thing that I'm doing on
TV is, like,
I know it's for TV.
So, if I talk to you and get you
relaxed and
make you laugh and I laugh,
you're going to
say something that you weren't
expecting to
say, because you're more
comfortable.
Richard Spencer normally sits
across from
people like me, and they're
pushing him and
they're challenging him.
And it makes him defensive.
And it sort of gets to the same
place.
By me sitting down with me, we
got to different
places than he normally gets
with other people,
which exposed him in a different
way to people
who thought they knew everything
about him.
JEFFREY BROWN: The election
happened, surprised
a lot of people.
And there was suddenly a lot of
talk about
an America that felt left
behind, right, or
left out.
So to the extent you're clear
about where
you're coming from and your
politics, what
do you think people of your
political persuasion
should be doing now?
W. KAMAU BELL: I just wrote an
op-ed for The
New York Times saying people in
Berkeley need
to go vacation in Alabama.
I think that that is really --
if you can,
get out of your comfort zone and
get out of
your immediate area and go
someplace you wouldn't
expect to go.
You are going to learn more
about people.
And I think people in Alabama
should go to
Berkeley.
I travel the country a lot.
And you talk to people and
they're like, I
have never been to New York
City.
You have never been to New York
City?
Now, I get a lot of that is
economic.
But some of that is just people
think, that's
not for me.
And I feel like the best thing
you can do
in this country is mix it up
with other people.
Now, if you can't physically do
it, you need
to get online.
You need to connect with people.
You need to try to talk to
people, not yelling
at people on Facebook and
Twitter, but actually
really connect with people.
JEFFREY BROWN: Just one last
thing in thinking
about the comedy and the
sociopolitical.
Serious issues, you're dealing
with.
Is there a line?
Is there someplace where you
think comedy
just can't go?
W. KAMAU BELL: No, comedy is
pretty nonpartisan.
Comedy goes wherever comedy
wants to go.
Whether or not something is a
joke depends
on the ability of the person who
writes the
joke to communicate the
punchline.
Comedy is not something that --
it's like
math.
It's way more like math than
people realize.
There's comedians who are
Republicans.
Democrats.
Comedy doesn't care.
Comedy is just there to make
people laugh.
JEFFREY BROWN: All right, "The
Awkward Thoughts
of W. Kamau Bell."
Thank you very much.
W. KAMAU BELL: Thank you.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Tonight:
reflections from
author Brian Castner, who offers
his Humble
Opinion on why he felt most at
home overseas
fighting what he calls the
forever war.
BRIAN CASTNER, Author, "The Long
Walk": It's
a little odd to be a veteran of
a war that
doesn't end.
I did three tours, got home from
Iraq a decade
ago.
You think you have moved on, put
the war in
its place, and then you see
Tomahawk cruise
missile strikes on cable news,
and you're
reminded that your war isn't
over.
It's just gone on without you.
Some of us call it the forever
war, the invasions
of Afghanistan and Iraq, bombing
Libya and
Yemen, raids all over Africa,
and now Army
Rangers and Marine Corps
artillery in Syria.
It's already the longest war in
American history,
and I have given up thinking
peace is coming
any time soon.
Our nation has an all-volunteer
military,
and people join for lots of
reasons: education,
a sense of adventure,
patriotism.
But staying in the military,
racking up five,
six, seven tours, that's a
different kind
of decision.
There are plenty of ways to pay
for college
that don't involve getting shot
at over and
over again.
So why did I do it?
Why do soldiers choose to keep
serving in
the forever war?
I was an explosive ordnance
disposal technician,
EOD, we call it, the bomb squad.
After my last Iraq tour, I was
worn out mentally
and physically.
But my EOD brothers and sisters
were dying,
and I needed to stay to protect
them.
Such a feeling provides intense
meaning, but
also, in the forever war,
limitless obligation.
Our little tribe has lost more
than its share,
disarming those infamous
roadside bombs, and
I found it harder to stop going
back than
to go the first time, because,
at its core,
EOD work is about lifesaving,
not killing.
How do you say, I'm too tired, I
can't help
anyone else?
It's a devil's bargain, choosing
between one's
tribe and one's family.
On the one hand, I needed to be
in Iraq to
keep my comrades alive.
And, on the other, every moment
I was gone,
I wasn't a good husband or dad.
Sometimes, I ask myself, how
many tours would
have been enough to know, deep
in my bones,
that I had done my part?
This isn't survivor's guilt, or
nostalgia
for the adrenaline.
That is just shallow, fades with
youth.
It's a haunting sense that I let
my comrades
down by giving up before the job
was done.
But that's the paradox, right,
because it
feels like this business will
never be finished.
For years, I maintained this
fantasy that
I would get a phone call from my
old unit.
We need you back, they'd say.
I kept all my gear packed in a
trunk in the
basement, just in case.
I don't want to go back to Iraq.
But I also don't want my
brothers and sisters
to go back without me.
The end of the forever war can't
come soon
enough.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Now to our
"NewsHour" Shares,
something that caught our eye
that may be
of interest to you too.
In the aftermath of the terror
attack in Manchester,
England, writer Anthony
Breznican took to
Twitter to recount how one
person comforted
him during a difficult period in
his own life.
That man was Fred Rogers, of
"Mister Rogers'
Neighborhood."
Breznican recently spoke with us
via Skype
about the lessons he learned
during a chance
encounter with the late TV icon.
ANTHONY BREZNICAN,
"Entertainment Weekly":
My grandfather had died not so
long ago, and
he was sort of this one steady
constant in
my life, and a really positive
influence.
And when you don't have a lot of
those to
being with, to lose one is
really devastating.
So, I was going through a hard
time.
One afternoon, or morning, I was
leaving the
dorm, and I heard a familiar
song coming down
the hallway, won't you be my
neighbor.
And I kind of stuck my head into
the commons
room, and there on the TV was
Mr. Rogers.
One of his favorite things was
to talk about,
what do you do with the mad that
you feel?
FRED ROGERS, Host, "Mister
Rogers' Neighborhood"
(singing): What do you do with
the mad that
feel, when you feel so mad, you
could bite?
ANTHONY BREZNICAN: You know, a
way of helping
kids deal with their anger,
acknowledging
it, instead of telling them that
they shouldn't
feel it.
And it was like, this speaks to
me.
I'm very angry.
I'm very scared.
Even as a young adult, like this
-- it didn't
feel like a kids program.
It felt very profound.
Within about two weeks or so, I
was at the
school paper and I got into the
elevator to
go down to the lobby, and the
doors opened,
and standing there is Mr. Rogers
himself.
I turned around and said, like:
"Look, I just
want to tell you how much you
mean to me."
And he said -- he didn't say
like, thank you,
I appreciate that or anything.
He was just like: "Oh, did you
grow up as
one of my television neighbors?"
And just the way he said it was
so sweet.
And I was like, "Yes, yes, I was
your neighbor."
And he gives -- opens his arms
and he is like,
"It's great to see you again,
neighbor," and
he just gives me this big hug.
And it felt so wonderful to meet
him, but
also to literally be embraced by
Mr. Rogers,
this kind man.
FRED ROGERS (singing): I will be
back when
the day was new.
ANTHONY BREZNICAN: And he sat
down and he
said, "Would you like to tell me
what it was
that was upsetting you?"
And just the say he said that,
too, is so
indicative of Mr. Rogers.
He didn't say, oh, what was
bothering you?
He said, "Would you like to tell
me?"
And I did.
And it helped so much just to
have someone
to talk to.
It wasn't just a persona that he
put on for
this program.
The program grafted itself onto
his personality,
his real soul, his real heart.
It was the night of the
Manchester bombing,
and I think the whole world was
just wondering
how someone could do something
like this.
And that quote that he gave
repeatedly in
interviews about his mother
telling him, if
you see something awful, look
for the helpers,
find hope among the helpers, the
people who
are rushing in to save those who
are hurting.
And I saw that meme, like a
photograph of
him with that text shared again
and again
by different people online.
And that just got me thinking of
this memory
of how Mr. Rogers was kind in
real life.
I don't think anybody could ever
fill Mr.
Rogers' shoes.
We can try.
But he was one of a kind.
And once in a lifetime means
once in a lifetime.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thank goodness
for reruns.
On the "NewsHour" online right
now: It's almost
Memorial Day, meaning it's
almost summer,
a time to catch up on missed
readings, turn
back to old favorites, and
discover new ones.
We get recommendations for great
summer reads
from two bookstore owners who
are also novelists.
All that and more is on our Web
site, PBS.org/NewsHour.
And Robert Costa and his team
are preparing
for "Washington Week."
Robert, what do you got on tap?
ROBERT COSTA: President Trump's
foreign trip
did little to distance him or
his family from
the FBI's Russia probe.
We will have the latest on why
investigators
are eager to interview
son-in-law Jared Kushner,
plus how the president's America
first agenda
played out on the world stage,
tonight on
"Washington Week" -- Hari.
HARI SREENIVASAN: Thanks,
Robert.
We will be watching.
Tomorrow, on "PBS NewsHour
Weekend," in the
wake of the deadly Manchester
bombing, I sit
down with an expert on the
politics of Islam
to discuss what motivates
terrorists to commit
such horrific acts.
GILLES KEPEL, Political
Scientist: People
who are imbued with this
Islamist radical
ideology, and then, you know,
you take a knife,
you take a gun, you take your
car, and then
you kill as many kafir, or
infidels, as possible.
And then they will retaliate.
They will, say, desecrate a
mosque or something.
And this will create a sort of
system of provocation
and repression, which will lead
up to the
breakup of society.
HARI SREENIVASAN: So the goal is
to break
society up from the inside, to
create civil
strife.
GILLES KEPEL: Exactly.
HARI SREENIVASAN: That's
tomorrow night on
"PBS NewsHour Weekend."
And we will be back right here
on Monday.
I will have a report on the
origin of organs
that are used to transplant in
China, a system
that has been shrouded in
secrecy.
That's the "NewsHour" for
tonight.
I'm Hari Sreenivasan.
Have a great weekend.
Thank you, and good night.